ELE-1790: Renaming, Detection Delay Docs (#1197)
elementary-data/elementary: docs/guides/anomaly-detection-configuration/detection-delay.mdx

---
title: "detection_delay"
sidebarTitle: "detection_delay"
---

```
detection_delay:
  period: < time period > # supported periods: hour, day, week, month
  count: < number of periods >
```

> The duration for retracting the detection period.

Reviewer: This is not clear enough in my opinion.
maybe something like: 
"There are cases in which the latest data should be excluded from the test. For example, this can happen because of scheduling issues- if the test is running before the table is populated for some reason. The detection delay is the period of time to ignore, after the detection period."
WDYT?

Author: i'll add it.

- _Default: 0_
- _Relevant tests: Anomaly detection tests with `timestamp_column`_

<img src="/pics/anomalies/detection-delay.png" alt="Detection Delay" />

<RequestExample>

```yml test
models:
  - name: this_is_a_model
    tests:
      - elementary.volume_anomalies:
          detection_delay:
            period: day
            count: 1
```

```yml model
models:
  - name: this_is_a_model
    config:
      elementary:
        detection_delay:
          period: day
          count: 1
```

```yml dbt_project.yml
vars:
  detection_delay:
    period: day
    count: 1
```

</RequestExample>

#### How it works?

The `detection_delay` param only works for tests that have `timestamp_column` configuration.

> It does not affect the other duration parameters, like `backfill_days` or `days_back`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does not affect the other duration parameters, like `detection_period` or `training_period`.
```
